Add Exposure SQL Documentation (#36815)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/experiments/exposure_sql.md

---

> title: Define Exposure SQL Models

Reviewer: Recommend aligning to use "Create" for internal consistency, and updating the matching `name:` in `config/_default/menus/main.en.yaml` so the menu entry matches.

```suggestion
title: Create Exposure SQL Models
```

> description: Analyze experiments tracked in your data warehouse

Reviewer: Consider making the description more specific by naming the feature. Helps with search and AI retrieval, and tells the reader exactly what this page covers before they click in.

```suggestion
description: Use Exposure SQL Models to analyze experiments randomized outside Datadog Feature Flags.
```

further_reading:

> - link: "/experiments/guide/"

Reviewer: The link text says "Connecting a Data Warehouse" but `/experiments/guide/` points to the guides _index_, not to that specific guide. The page exists at `/experiments/guide/connecting_a_data_warehouse/` (verified). Update the link so it matches the text.

```suggestion
- link: "/experiments/guide/connecting_a_data_warehouse/"
```

  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Connecting a Data Warehouse"
- link: "/experiments/defining_metrics/?tab=warehouse"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Create experiment metrics from warehouse data"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/experiments/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Measure the business impact of every product change with Datadog Experiments"
---

## Overview

> Use this page when you randomize subjects outside [Datadog Feature Flags][1] and need Datadog to read exposure records from your warehouse.

Reviewer: Lines 18 and 20 both lead with the same "you randomize outside Datadog Feature Flags" trigger condition. The page would read tighter if you consolidated into a single intro that says (1) what Exposure SQL Models are and (2) when to use them — without restating the trigger twice. For example:

```suggestion
Datadog Experiments analyzes experiments run with [Datadog Feature Flags][1] or an independent randomization system. If you randomize subjects outside of Datadog Feature Flags, create **Exposure SQL Models** to tell Datadog who was exposed to your experiment and when, by reading exposure records from your warehouse.
```

(Then delete the second paragraph on line 20.)

> Datadog Experiments analyzes experiments run with Datadog Feature Flags or an independent randomization system. To measure experiments randomized outside of Datadog, create **Exposure SQL Models** to tell Datadog who was exposed to your experiment and when.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Similar to [Metric SQL Models][2], Exposure SQL Models are SQL snippets that describe exposure data in your warehouse. Exposure SQL Models return the following columns:

Reviewer: "Snippets" is informal — "queries" is more precise and matches how SQL is usually described in Datadog docs.

```suggestion
Similar to [Metric SQL Models][2], Exposure SQL Models are SQL queries that describe exposure data in your warehouse. Exposure SQL Models return the following columns:
```

| Column | Required | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| Subject Key | Yes | A unique identifier for the subject randomized into the experiment. This is typically a `user_id`. |

> | Timestamp | Yes | The moment that a user was exposed to the experiment. |

Reviewer: Okay to use "timestamp" here to match the column name.

```suggestion
| Timestamp | Yes | The timestamp when the user was exposed to the experiment. |
```

| Experiment ID | Yes | The experiment that the user was exposed to. One Exposure SQL Model can track many experiments; this column filters records to a specific experiment. |
| Variant ID | Yes | The variant the user was assigned to (for example, `treatment` or `control`). |

> | Split by properties | No | Categorical data used to create dimensional split-by charts, such as customer tier, device type, or region. |

Reviewer: Inconsistent compound form: this row says **"Split by properties"** (no hyphen) but line 71 in the mapping step says **"split-by properties"** (hyphenated). Same concept, two different forms within one page. Hyphenated reads correctly as a compound modifier — recommend matching both to the hyphenated form.

```suggestion
| Split-by properties | No | Categorical data used to create dimensional split-by charts, such as customer tier, device type, or region. |
```

When you create an experiment, Datadog Feature Flags and warehouse exposures both appear during flag selection:

{{< img src="/product_analytics/experiment/exposure-sql/whn-flag-selection.png" alt="The feature flag selection interface during experiment creation, with a warehouse exposure source selected in the list." style="width:80%;" >}}

> <div class="alert alert-info">Metrics built on events from the Datadog SDK are not supported when exposures come from your warehouse instead of Datadog Feature Flags. You do not need to deduplicate exposure data upstream of Datadog. If multiple records exist for the same user-experiment pair, Datadog uses the first record. If one user was exposed to multiple variants in the same experiment, Datadog excludes that user from the analysis.</div>

Reviewer: This single alert block bundles four distinct facts: (1) an SDK-built-metrics support limitation, and (2–4) three deduplication rules. It's hard to scan. Consider splitting into two alerts, or moving the dedup behavior into a short bulleted note inside *How Datadog computes results*. For example, you could leave the support note here and break the dedup rules into a list:

```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">Metrics built on events from the Datadog SDK are not supported when exposures come from your warehouse instead of Datadog Feature Flags.</div>

Datadog deduplicates exposure data for you. You do not need to deduplicate upstream:

- If multiple records exist for the same user-experiment pair, Datadog uses the first record.
- If one user was exposed to multiple variants in the same experiment, Datadog excludes that user from the analysis.
```

## Prerequisites

Before you create Exposure SQL Models:

- [Connect your warehouse to Datadog][3]. Datadog supports BigQuery, Databricks, Redshift, and Snowflake.
- Create at least one [Metric SQL Model][2] and warehouse metric to measure experiment outcomes.
- Store exposure records in your warehouse with the columns listed above.

> ## Create Exposure SQL models

Reviewer: Since `Exposure SQL Models` is treated as a proper feature noun elsewhere on this page (capital M throughout the body and the H1), ok to keep capitalization here for the heading

```suggestion
## Create Exposure SQL Models
```

### Write your SQL

> Exposure SQL Models use SQL to query exposure data in your warehouse. For example:

Reviewer: Slight tightening — "use SQL to query" is redundant given the name "Exposure SQL Models."

```suggestion
Exposure SQL Models query exposure data in your warehouse. For example:
```

```sql
SELECT
  user_id,
  exposed_at,
  experiment_id,
  variant_id,
  customer_tier
FROM analytics.experiment_exposures
```

To create an Exposure SQL Model:

1. Navigate to {{< ui >}}Experiments{{< /ui >}} > {{< ui >}}Settings{{< /ui >}} > {{< ui >}}Exposure SQL Models{{< /ui >}} in Datadog Product Analytics.
1. Click {{< ui >}}Create Exposure SQL Model{{< /ui >}}.
1. Enter a SQL query that returns the required columns. Column names in your query do not need to match the Datadog field names.
1. Click {{< ui >}}Run{{< /ui >}} to preview your data.

### Map columns to Datadog

1. In the mapping panel on the right, map each query column to the corresponding Datadog field (Subject Key, Timestamp, Experiment ID, Variant ID, and optional split-by properties).
1. Click {{< ui >}}Create Exposure SQL Model{{< /ui >}} to save the model.

{{< img src="/product_analytics/experiment/exposure-sql/create-exposure-sql-model.png" alt="The Create Exposure SQL Model page showing a SQL editor with an example exposure query and a mapping panel that maps query columns to Datadog fields." style="width:80%;" >}}

> ## Create experiments using Exposure SQL models

Reviewer: Same as the earlier H2 — keep the capital M on "Models" to match how the feature name is treated everywhere else on the page.

```suggestion
## Create experiments using Exposure SQL Models
```

> After you save an Exposure SQL Model, Datadog scans for distinct experiment and variant values. To [create an experiment][4] with warehouse exposures:

Reviewer: Making this cleaner so the reader knows what's being scanned.

```suggestion
After you save an Exposure SQL Model, Datadog scans the model for distinct experiment and variant values. To [create an experiment][4] with warehouse exposures:
```

1. On the experiment setup page, open the feature flag selector.
1. Select a warehouse experiment ID from the list, or enter an experiment ID manually if it does not appear in the latest scan.

{{< img src="/product_analytics/experiment/exposure-sql/manually-add-flag.png" alt="The feature flag selection modal with a text field to manually enter an experiment ID that was not found in the latest warehouse scan." style="width:80%;" >}}

> 1. Select the Exposure SQL Model that tracks the flag.

Reviewer: The numbered list starts on line 80 (`1.`, `1.`), then an image breaks it on line 83, then another `1.` here on line 85, then another image on line 87. In CommonMark, that second list block restarts numbering — so this renders as "1, 2, [image], 1" rather than "1, 2, [image], 3." Consider either moving both screenshots so they follow the last step (keeps the list contiguous), or pulling the screenshots into indented continuations under their respective steps.

<img width="837" height="839" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a62e05a7-5759-4de1-abbe-9b5ff2197757" />

{{< img src="/product_analytics/experiment/exposure-sql/select-exposure-sql.png" alt="The experiment setup page with a dropdown to select which Exposure SQL Model tracks a manually entered experiment ID." style="width:80%;" >}}

## How Datadog computes results

After you create an experiment from an Exposure SQL Model, Datadog runs a data pipeline that:

> 1. Filters exposures to the relevant experiment and timeframe.

Reviewer: Per the [Datadog Word List](https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/WRITING/pages/3541042054/Word+List), use **time frame** (two words).

```suggestion
1. Filters exposures to the relevant experiment and time frame.
```

1. Deduplicates by subject (user) and removes users exposed to multiple variants.

> 1. Joins to metric events by user and timestamp (only metric events after experiment exposure are included).

Reviewer: The parenthetical re-states "after exposure" which is implied by the join condition. Folding it inline makes the step shorter and clearer.

```suggestion
1. Joins exposures to metric events that occurred after exposure, by user and timestamp.
```

> 1. Aggregates to the user level and applies winsorization.

Reviewer: "Winsorization" is statistical jargon. Most experiment-platform users will recognize it, but a brief gloss (or a link to wherever Datadog Experiments already defines it) lowers the cognitive cost for newer readers. For example:

```suggestion
1. Aggregates to the user level and applies winsorization (caps extreme metric values to reduce variance).
```

> 1. Aggregates to the variant level and computes summary statistics (mean, variance, and more).

Reviewer: "And more" is vague — name what's included, or trim to the stats that actually matter to the reader.

```suggestion
1. Aggregates to the variant level and computes summary statistics, including mean and variance.
```

### Update schedule

Datadog updates experiment results nightly. To refresh results immediately, open the experiment overview page and click {{< ui >}}Run an update now{{< /ui >}}.

{{< img src="/product_analytics/experiment/exposure-sql/manual-trigger.png" alt="The experiment results overview page with the Run an update now button highlighted." style="width:80%;" >}}

To view a simplified version of the pipeline logic, click {{< ui >}}Copy SQL{{< /ui >}} on any warehouse metric.

{{< img src="/product_analytics/experiment/exposure-sql/copy-sql.png" alt="The experiment results page with the Copy SQL button highlighted on a warehouse metric." style="width:80%;" >}}

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /feature_flags/
[2]: /experiments/defining_metrics/?tab=warehouse#create-a-sql-model

> [3]: /experiments/guide/

Reviewer: Same issue as the further-reading link on line 5 — reference `[3]` (used by "Connect your warehouse to Datadog" in the Prerequisites) points at the guides index rather than the specific guide page. Update to the specific URL.

```suggestion
[3]: /experiments/guide/connecting_a_data_warehouse/
```
